Add documentation for Generic channel (#94)
kata-ai/kata-platform-docs: docs/channels/generic.md

---
id: generic-channel
title: Generic Channel
---

In this documentation, We will learn how to build chatBot app using Kata Platform and connected it to Generic Channel. Generic Channel can be used for the channel that is not yet available in Kata Platform, so you can make a “wrapper”. Here, we use our app that we build using NestJs *(you can use other programming language or framework to make your app)* to communicate with chatBot.

## Get Started

> In this tutorial, we gonna create a generic channel using NestJs and connected it with chatbot.

Reviewer: atau 
```suggestion
In this tutorial, we are going to create a generic channel using NestJs and connected it with chatbot.
```

2. Select the project that you want to deploy
3. Go to Deploy Menu on ***kata-platform*** sidebar, choose overview, and create ***New Deployment***
![DeployMenu](./images/gc/select_deploy_menu.png)

## Create Generic Channel in Kata Platform

1. Go to Deploy Menu on ***kata-platform*** sidebar, choose Environment, and ***Create Environment***
![CreateEnvironment](./images/gc/create_environment.png)
2. Afterthat, you must create channel and choose ***Generic*** type
![CreateChannel](./images/gc/create_channel.png)

Fill the form to create your channel:

```yml
Name: <type your channel name>
Type: Generic
Token: -
Refresh Token: -
Secret: -
URL: <Your endpoint to retrieve data from webhook, for example http://your_domain/message/retrieveMessage>
```

> Note: Make sure your endpoint have public access to retrieve data from webhook

After successfull make a channel you will get webhook and will use it to your app.
![Webhook](./images/gc/webhook.png)

## Parameter

To send a message to chatBot you must have some parameters, see the parameter below:

***URL(POST REQUEST)***

 > <https://kanal.kata.ai/receive_message/>webhookId

***REQUEST BODY***

> > {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
{
```

Example for opening JSON code block. Please do the same for others.

    userId: "someUserId",
    messages: [messageObject]

>   }

Reviewer 2: I can't use the suggested change feature to fix this, but add the closing ``` to use the code block syntax correctly.

Please do the same for others.

  retrieveMessage(@Req() request: Request) {
    console.log(request.body);
  }

  @Post('sendMessage')
  sendMessage(@Req() request: Request) {
    let data = request.body;
    return this.appService.sendMessage(data);
  }
}
```

sendMessage() function will send user message to chatbot.

```typescript
sendMessage(data) {
    let options = {
      method: 'POST',
      uri:
        '<enter_your_webhook_here>',
      json: true,
      body: {
        "userId": data.userId,
        "messages":[
          {
            "type": data.messages[0].type,
            "content": data.messages[0].content
          }
        ]
      }
    }

    return rp(options)
      .then(function (parsedBody){
          data = {
            "status" : "Success",
            "messages" : parsedBody
          }
          return data
      })
      .catch(function(err) {
          data = {
            "status" : "error",
            "messages" : err
          }
          return data
      })
  }
```

## Testing Generic Channel with Postman app

Here, you can use Postman to test send message to chatBot
![TestingWithPostman](./images/gc/testing_postman.png)

and you will get response from chatBot to your app

> ![ResponseChannel](./images/gc/response_from_channel.png)

Reviewer: itu id sama ref-id ga di sensor aja?

sama tambahin di akhir kayak
`Now your chatbot is ready`
